just like the batteries you use in
consumer electronics a properly charged
battery is necessary to the ongoing
operation of your vehicle here's how the
battery works it operates your vehicle's
lights and electrical accessories even
when your vehicle isn't running it
supplies electricity to the starter and
ignition system so you can start the
vehicle once the engines running the
generator sometimes called an alternator
takes over and creates or generates
electricity that electricity powers all
your vehicle systems and maintains the
charge in your battery sometimes when
your vehicle is using a high electrical
load the engine may idle at a higher rpm
setting than normal this allows the
battery to charge when you bring your
vehicle into your GM dealership for
service your service technician will
likely conduct a visual inspection of
your battery you will look for signs of
physical damage such as a crack in the
terminal a broken case or damaged cover
that could allow electrolyte leak you
will also look for loose connections or
corroded battery cables and check to see
if the generator drive belt is worn
damaged or loose some batteries made
before 2003 have a built-in hydrometer
on the top of the battery sometimes
called the eye a ball floats in this eye
if it's green that's an indication your
battery is probably okay if it's black
yellow or clear your battery needs to be
tested further it probably needs a
charge or may need to be replaced if
it's yellow or clear but the vehicle
still starts and the accessories are
running your battery is probably still
good if your vehicle won't start you
look under the hood and you see that the
hydrometer is yellow or clear the
battery should be replaced
don't try to charge or load test it that
could cause injury always be careful
around batteries they have acid that can
burn you and gas that can explode if
your battery is dead always follow the
instructions in your owners manual
before attempting to jumpstart the
vehicle if you have any questions about
whether your battery is operating
properly it's best to take your vehicle
to a GM dealer where a GM trained
technician can inspect the battery and
help determine if it needs service your
GM dealer has equipment to
diagnose the condition of your battery
this is the midtronics J 40 mm using
this your GM technician can quickly
determine if a battery simply needs a
charge or if it needs additional testing
here's how it works it uses a digital
analyzer to test the voltage and cold
cranking amps to make sure there's
enough charge in the battery it's
comforting to know that there are ways a
GM technician can help determine the
condition of your battery but here are
some everyday things you can do to
extend the life of your battery always
turn off your electrical equipment when
you're not using it and be sure not to
plug in equipment that exceeds the
maximum amperage rating of your
vehicle's battery after you start your
engine your vehicle's battery warning
light will illuminate just briefly to
show that the generator and battery
charging systems are working if the
light stays on you may also hear a chime
and this most likely means your vehicle
needs service when that happens you
should take your vehicle to a GM dealer
for service as soon as possible to help
maintain a sufficient state of charge in
your battery until you get to the
dealership turn off all your vehicle's
accessories including the climate
control system which you should set to
OFF and if it's time for a new battery
be sure to get the one that has the
replacement number shown on the original
batteries label we recommend an AC Delco
replacement battery be sure to refer to
your vehicle's owner's manual for more
information on your battery and tips for
keeping it in optimum operating
condition
remember for proper service or
maintenance from a GM trained technician
take your vehicle to one of the nearly
7,000 GM dealers nationwide